== Chessnut Web Application

===What are Chess variants?
Chess variants are mutations on the cannonical game of {Chess}[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chess]. Often Variants include
new pieces, time restrictions, move modifications, and more. Examples of Chess variants include Losing Chess, 4 player chess, and blitz Chess. 

===Chessnut 
{Chessnut}[https://chessnutio.herokuapp.com/#!/login] currently fully supports the classical variation of Chess, {Chess 960}[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chess960], and {Blitz Chess}[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_chess]. Chessnut partially supports {Crazyhouse}[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crazyhouse], and is looking to fully implement it together with other variations in the future. 
====Classical
The classical variation of Chess is known as the Royal Game and often seen as the ultimate intellectual sport. Classical Chess has been likened to art, science, and a good fight. 

The game offers vast possibilities over the board, and as seen champions with diverse styles. Chess is rightfully so described by Grand Master Walter Browne as a "natural cerebral high".

====Chess960
Chess960 was invented by Chess world champion Bobby Fischer, and reflects his dislike for opening theory. The game derives the "960" part of its name from the fact that there are 960 possible permutations for that starting position.

Chess960 is not a complete random shuffle of the pieces but obeys certain restrictions that preserve characteristics of the classical variabtion of the game. For example, bishops remain on opposite color squres. A game of Chess960 is nearly always a thrill!

===Audience
Chessnut is an open application and welcomes anyone to visit and play. Players of all skill levels are welcome to try out the games offered, 
and improve at the game. Players will need to register with their email and be asked to create a password, but no other information is required.

===Contribute
To contribute to Chessnut, the collaborator should do one of the following: 
* Fork the repository, commit the changes to forked-repo/master, and submit a pull request to base-repo/master. 
* Formally request to be added as a contributor by contacting the repository owner (profile information).

===Dependencies  
====Backend
  Ruby on Rails 4.2.8
  PostgreSQL 9.6.3 

====Frontend
  AngularJS 1.6.4 
  Bootstrap 3.3.7
  jQuery 3.2.1

====Chess UI and Logic
  chess.js (https://github.com/jhlywa/chess.js/blob/master/README.md)
  chessboard.js v0.3.0
  cinnamon chess engine (http://cinnamonchess.altervista.org)
  
  
